>> Bianca Gandolfo: Hello,
welcome everyone.
This is an introduction to Graphs and
Trees.
This is Part 3 and 4 of my four part
course on Practical Data Structures and
Algorithms geared for
technical interviews.
So let's just talk about an overview
of an interview data structure.
So these are the main ones that are listed
and, cracking the coding interview.
Highly recommend if you don't have a copy,
all of these sort of
like online tutorials as well as
most Computer Science courses.
When I was developing this course, I took
a punch of syllabuses from university
courses and kind of cross-referenced, and
just picked out the most common ones.
And also the ones that you actually
will get asked about in an interview.
Cool, so we have arrays and strings, hash
tables, linked lists, stacks and queues.
We covered that prior.
And today we're gonna to talk about
graphs, and we're gonna talk about trees.
So graphs we use to model complex
relationships between objects.
And trees are pretty similar
to graphs except that we
have a hierarchical
relationship between nodes.
Cool, so we're gonna cover trees,
graphs, and binary search trees.
And we're gonna start from
like small tidbits and
we're gonna build and build and
build until we have a full picture.
And so that's just what to expect,
we're gonna ramp slow.
And so you're gonna need to keep
each piece for the next piece.
So if there's any point where
you're confused, please stop me.
Cuz it's gonna be required that you
understand each piece to understand
the next piece, cool?
Can I get a commitment from everyone that
you'll stop me when you have questions?
>> Speaker 2: Yep, yes.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Awesome,
can I get a verbal yes from everyone?
>> Speaker 2: Yes.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Feel
like more excited?
>> Speaker 2: Yes, yeah, woo.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: You didn't do it.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: [LAUGH] It's okay,
I forgive you, but next time, next time.
Awesome, thank you.
Okay, so some tips on how to be effective.
First of all, don't memorize,
it's not gonna help you.
You wanna learn sort of
this overarching themes so
you can apply them to different problems.
You wanna practice, so first of all,
practice, practice, practice but
also practice with a timer.
If you're learning this for an interview,
you're interview is gonna be timed.
There's probably gonna be 30 minutes or
an hour.
And so,
if you're going through these problems and
it's taking you more than 30 minutes or
an hour depending on the complexity.
Just note that, and then keep
practicing so you can get faster.
Reading about it doesn't count.
So someone said here that they,
who was it that likes to watch but
doesn't actually like to code it out.
Was that you, Eli?
And Joe, did you also say that?
That you-
>> Speaker 3: Yes, I did.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: That you
didn't like to practice?
Okay, yeah, so hate to break
it to you all, doesn't count.
It's cool, you can talk about
theoretically, but we're programmers here.
We have to program this out.
So we need to take that theory and
we need to actually apply it to code.
Because that's the point, right?
And also, just in life,
communicate, be nice.
This also applies to interviews.
Just treat it like any relationship
you would cultivate with someone.
Respect, kindness,
they're not there to attack you.
So those are my main tips for interviews
and learning this kind of stuff.
Any questions?
Anyone else have a tip that
they would like to offer?
>> Speaker 4: With the practice,
do you also suggest practicing,
like doing it on a whiteboard as
well as doing it on the computer.
Since so many interviews
still use the whiteboard, and
don't actually give you a machine.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, personally,
I don't practice on a whiteboard.
But I could see that it
could be really useful.
Especially if you feel like you're
gonna be nervous about that,
like the change in the environment,
if that makes you uncomfortable, kill it.
Just keep do it all in
a whiteboard until it gets easier.
The reason I don't practice in
the whiteboard personally is because it's
just slower and it's messier,
and that kind of bothers me.
So I guess you could practice
making it really neat.
Starting up at the very top,
writing really small,
making lots of spaces
in between everything.
But I also don't own a whiteboard,
yeah, but that's good.
>> Speaker 5: Applications.
So finding something you
can apply to something.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> Speaker 5: That's how I learned, but
it's very hard with algorithms sometimes
to, because it's like that's the basic.
And then afterwards, you have to
actually build the app, function.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, for sure.
>> Speaker 5: But it's always
nice to think about it that way,
from that point of view, but
finding that real application is also for
a bunch of different-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
it'll stick too, right?
>> Speaker 5: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It'll be more
interesting, absolutely.
One last tip, who's got it?
>> Speaker 5: I actually do
the whiteboard thing itself.
At home I painted a whole whiteboard.
So, I code it up, go through this sort
of code kinda deal and then decode it.
And then when I go on my interviews,
I actually take my own pens and markers.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Wow.
>> Speaker 5: Wipe the board clean,
get ready for it and
it's very impressive to actually do both.
Say I'll talk you through, write a loop,
talk about anything that
tbey want me to discuss.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> Speaker 5: Code it out on the board and
then if they want me to,
I'll code it on a computer.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
I like that your ringer on.
>> Speaker 5: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: You're professional
whiteboard that you have to
have your special markers.
>> Speaker 5: [LAUGH] They get really,
really, they laugh at that.
They're like,
you came here with your own marker.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: They'll
remember you though.
>> Speaker 5: Yeah, that's right.
[LAUGH]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: If you can
find a quirk and you go in there,
and you do a really good job,
they're gonna be like, who's that awesome
guy who brought his markers, cool.
All right, cool, and
just some perspective.
We're on a journey.
We're all at different
places on our journey.
And for some of us, this will come easier.
It'll be harder for others, but it's okay.
And manage your time, keep at it,
keep practicing, be present.
Find ease and joy if you can through this.
For some people this
can be really painful.
They're only doing this because
they wanna get a job and
this is like a hurdle that you
have jump through to get a job.
And that can be a burden.
But I invite you to just let that go and
try to find joy in it.
Try to find something, just one thing that
is interesting or exciting about this.
And maybe that one thing is your
dream job, or whatever that may be.